source/int_jupyterlab_extension.rst, before:

######################
JupyterLab extension
######################

Odahu-flow provides the JupyterLab extension that allows you to interact with an Odahu cluster from JupyterLab web-based IDEs.

***********************
Installation
***********************

To install the extension, perform the following steps:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install odahu-flow-jupyterlab-plugin
    jupyter serverextension enable --sys-prefix --py odahuflow.jupyterlab
    jupyter labextension install odahu-flow-jupyterlab-plugin

Another option is `prebuilt Jupyterlab Docker Image <https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/odahu/odahu-flow-jupyterlab>`_ with the extension.

***********************
Configuration
***********************

The extension can be configured though the environment variables.

.. csv-table::
   :header: "Environment name", "Default", "Value example", "Description"
   :widths: 20, 30, 50, 50

   "DEFAULT_API_ENDPOINT", "", "https://odahu.company.com/", "Default URL to the Odahu-flow API server"
   "API_AUTH_ENABLED", "true", "true", "Change the value to false if authorization is disabled on the Odahu-flow API server"
   "ODAHUFLOWCTL_OAUTH_AUTH_URL", "", "https://keycloak.company.org/auth/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/auth", "Keycloak authorization endpoint"
   "JUPYTER_REDIRECT_URL", "", "http://localhost:8888", "JupyterLab external URL"
   "ODAHUFLOWCTL_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID", "", "", "Oauth client ID"
   "ODAHUFLOWCTL_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET", "", "", "Oauth2 client secret"

To enable SSO, you should provide the following options:

    * `ODAHUFLOWCTL_OAUTH_AUTH_URL`
    * `JUPYTER_REDIRECT_URL`
    * `ODAHUFLOWCTL_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`
    * `ODAHUFLOWCTL_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`

***********************
Login
***********************

To authorize on an Odahu-flow API service in the Jupyterlab extension, you should perform the following steps:

    * Copy and paste the Odahu-flow API service URL.
    * Open an API server URL in a browser to get the token. Copy and paste this token in the login form.

***********************
Usage
***********************

Below we consider all views of the JupyterLab extension.

Templates
---------

The extension provides predefined list of API file templates. You can create a file from a template.

.. image:: img/templates.gif

Main view
---------

The main view contains all Odahu-flow entities. You can view or delete them.

.. image:: img/main_view.gif

Log viewer
----------

For troubleshooting, you can get access to the training, packaging or deployment logs.
If the job is running then logs will be updated in runtime.

.. image:: img/logs.gif

Submit resources
----------------

You can create any Odahu-flow entities from the extension.
The button ``Submit`` only appears in the context menu when file ends with ``.yaml`` or ``json``.

.. image:: img/submit.gif

Commit message:

adding prerequisites to docs for GUI and CLI; updated url

source/int_jupyterlab_extension.rst, after:

######################
JupyterLab extension
######################

Odahu-flow provides the JupyterLab extension that allows you to interact with an Odahu cluster from JupyterLab web-based IDEs.

***********************
Installation
***********************

**Prerequisites**:

-  Python 3.6 or higher
-  Jupyterlab GUI
-  Preferable to use Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox browsers

To install the extension, perform the following steps:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install odahu-flow-jupyterlab-plugin
    jupyter serverextension enable --sys-prefix --py odahuflow.jupyterlab
    jupyter labextension install odahu-flow-jupyterlab-plugin

Another option is `prebuilt Jupyterlab Docker Image <https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/odahu/odahu-flow-jupyterlab>`_ with the extension.

***********************
Configuration
***********************

The extension can be configured though the environment variables.

.. csv-table::
   :header: "Environment name", "Default", "Description"
   :widths: 20, 30, 40

   "DEFAULT_API_ENDPOINT", "", "Default URL to the Odahu-flow API server"
   "API_AUTH_ENABLED", "true", "Change the value to false if authorization is disabled on the Odahu-flow API server"

***********************
Login
***********************

To authorize on an Odahu-flow API service in the Jupyterlab extension, you should perform the following steps:

    * Copy and paste the Odahu-flow API service URL.
    * Open an API server URL in a browser to get the token. Copy and paste this token in the login form.

***********************
Usage
***********************

Below we consider all views of the JupyterLab extension.

Templates
---------

The extension provides predefined list of API file templates. You can create a file from a template.

.. image:: img/templates.gif

Main view
---------

The main view contains all Odahu-flow entities. You can view or delete them.

.. image:: img/main_view.gif

Log viewer
----------

For troubleshooting, you can get access to the training, packaging or deployment logs.
If the job is running then logs will be updated in runtime.

.. image:: img/logs.gif

Submit resources
----------------

You can create any Odahu-flow entities from the extension.
The button ``Submit`` only appears in the context menu when file ends with ``.yaml`` or ``json``.

.. image:: img/submit.gif
