source/ref_trainings.rst, before:

######################
Model Trainings
######################

.. image:: img/training.png

ODAHU model training component helps to automate ML model training jobs execution in K8S.
The primary goal of model training component is to create a :term:`Trained Model Binary` for a :term:`Packager`.
The API is pluggable and can be extended for different ML frameworks.

You can find the list of out-of-the-box trainers below:

    * :ref:`ref_trainings:MLFlow toolchain`
    * :ref:`ref_trainings:MLFlow Project toolchain`

********************************************
General training structure
********************************************

.. _Training API:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Training API

    kind: ModelTraining
    # Some unique value among all trainings. if not, the training with the same name will be overwritten.
    # Id must:
    #  * contain at most 63 characters
    #  * contain only lowercase alphanumeric characters or ‘-’
    #  * start with an alphanumeric character
    #  * end with an alphanumeric character
    id: wine-12345
    spec:
      model:
        # Human-readable model name
        name: wine
        # Human-readable model version
        version: 3.0
        # Optionally, you can specify template for output artifact
        # The default value is {{ .Name }}-{{ .Version }}-{{ .RandomUUID }}.zip
        # where:
        #   Name - spec.model.name
        #   Version - spec.model.version
        #   RandomUUID - a random UUID v4, for example be17d12d-df43-4588-99e7-56a0db3cad77
        artifactNameTemplate: {{ .Name }}-{{ .Version }}-{{ .RandomUUID }}.zip
      # The toolchain parameter is a point of extension for different ML frameworks.
      # For now, we only support the Mlfow toolchain
      toolchain: mlflow
      # Mlflow MLProject file contains the list of entrypoints. You must choose one of those.
      entrypoint: main
      # Working directory inside a training (docker) container, which GIT repository copied in.
      workDir: work/dir
      # The training data for a ML script. You can find full description there: https://docs.odahu.org/ref_trainings.html#training-data
      data:
          # You can specify a connection name
        - connection: wine
          # Path to a file or a dir where data will copy from a bucket; relative to your Git repository root derictory.
          localPath: mlflow/wine-quality/
          # Path to the dir or file in a bucket
          # Optional. If it is missing then the path from connection will be used.
          remotePath: training-data/
      # You can specify the map of hyperparameters
      hyperParameters:
        key: value
        var2: test
      # Compute resources for the training job.
      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 1Gi
        requests:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 1Gi
      # Custom environment variables that should be set before entrypoint invocation.
      envs:
          # The name of variable
        - name: TEST_ENV_KEY
          # The value of variable
          value: TEST_ENV_VALUE
      # A Docker image where the training will be launched.
      # By default, the image from a toolchain is used.
      # image: python:3.8
      # A section defining training source code
      algorithmSource:
        # Use vcs if source code located in a repository and objectStorage if in a storage. Should not use both
        vcs:
          # A connection which describes credentials to a GIT repository or to a bucket if using objectStorage
          connection: <git-connection>
          # Git reference (branch or tag)
          # This must be specified here OR in Git connection itself
          # In case of using objectStorage, specify path: <remote path> instead of reference
          reference: master
      # Node selector that exactly matches a node pool from ODAHU config
      # This is optional; when omitted, ODAHU uses any of available training node pools
      # Read more about node selector: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/
      nodeSelector:
        label: value
    status:
      # One of the following states: scheduling, running, succeeded, failed, unknown
      state: running
      # List of training results
      artifacts:
          # Mlflow run ID
        - runId: 12345678
          # Trained artifact name
          artifactName: wine-10.zip
          # VCS commit ID
          commitID: d3d6e8ed776ed37fd2efd7a1b8d5fabdd7e3eea5

********************************************
Training data
********************************************

Odahu-flow allows downloading data from various sources to the local file system of a training job.
Data source supports the following types of Odahu-flow connections:

    * :ref:`ref_connections:S3`
    * :ref:`ref_connections:Google Cloud Storage`
    * :ref:`ref_connections:Azure Blob storage`

Let's consider the following example of downloading training data from Google Cloud Storage.

Prerequisites:
    * The training data set is located in the `wine-training-data` bucket by `wine/11-11-2011/` directory.
    * The ML script expects that the data will be located in the training (docker) container by `data/` directory relative to the root git directory.

First of all, we should create an :ref:`Odahu-flow GCS connection<ref_connections:Google Cloud Storage>`.

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Training Data GCS:

    kind: ModelTraining
    id: "wine-training-data-conn"
    spec:
        type: gcs
        uri: gsc://wine-training-data/
        keySecret: '{"type": "service_account", "project_id": "project_id", "private_key_id": "private_key_id", "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nprivate_key\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n", "client_email": "test@project_id.iam.gserviceaccount.com", "client_id": "123455678", "auth_uri": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth", "token_uri": "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token", "auth_provider_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs", "client_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/test@project_id.iam.gserviceaccount.com"}'
        description: "Training data for a model"
        region: us-central2

Finally, we provide a data section of Model Training.

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Example of Connection GCS:
    :name: Connection GCS file

    spec:
      data:
        - connection: wine-training-data-conn
          localPath: data/
          remotePath: wine/11-11-2011/

********************************************
GPU
********************************************

Odahu-flow supports model training on GPU nodes.

You can find more about GPU deployment configuration in the :ref:`installation guide <tutorials_installation:Kubernetes setup>`.

In order to provision a training container in the GPU node pool,
you must specify the GPU resource in the model training manifest.

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Training on GPU

    kind: ModelTraining
    id: gpu-model
    spec:
      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 1Gi
          gpu: 1
        requests:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 1Gi

NVIDIA libraries will be mount by ODAHU to the training container.
But if you want to use a CUDA library, you should install it manually.

For example, you can add the following dependencies to a conda file: cudatoolkit-dev and cudatoolkit.

.. _training-model-dependencies-cache:

********************************************
Model Dependencies Cache
********************************************

ODAHU Flow downloads your dependencies on every model training launch.
You can experience the following troubles with this approach:
    * downloading and installation of some dependencies can take a long time
    * network errors during downloading dependencies

To overcome these and other problems, ODAHU Flow provides a way to specify
a prebuilt training Docker image with your dependencies.

.. note::

    If you have different versions of a library in your model сonda file and
    cache container, then the model dependency has a priority.
    It will be downloaded during model training.

First of all, you have to describe the Dockerfile:

    * Inherit from a release version of odahu-flow-mlflow-toolchain
    * Optionally, add install dependencies
    * Add a model conda file
    * Update the ``odahu_model`` conda environment.

.. code-block:: dockerfile
    :caption: Example of Dockerfile:
    :name: Example of Dockerfile

    FROM odahu/odahu-flow-mlflow-toolchain:1.1.0-rc11

    # Optionally
    # apt-get install -y wget

    ADD conda.yaml ./
    RUN conda env update -n ${ODAHU_CONDA_ENV_NAME} -f conda.yaml

Build the docker image:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker build -t training-model-cache:1.0.0 .

Push the docker image to a registry:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker push training-model-cache:1.0.0

Specify the image in a model training:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Training example

    kind: ModelTraining
    id: model-12345
    spec:
      image: training-model-cache:1.0.0
      ...

*********************
Trainings management
*********************

Trainings can be managed using the following ways.

Swagger UI
----------

ModelTraining and ToolchainIntegration are available on the Swagger UI at http://api-service/swagger/index.html URL.

Odahu-flow CLI
--------------

:ref:`ref_odahuflowctl:Odahuflowctl` supports the Training API.
You must be :ref:`logged in <ref_odahuflowctl:Login>` if you want to get access to the API.

Getting all trainings in json format:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl train get --format json

Getting the model name of the trainings:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl train get --id tensorflow-cli -o 'jsonpath=[*].spec.model.name'

* Creating a training from `train.yaml` file:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl train create -f train.yaml
	
* Reruning a training from `train.yaml` file:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl train edit -f train.yaml

* All training commands and documentation:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl train --help

We also have local training:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl local train --help

and can run trainings locally:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl local train run --id [Model training ID] -d [Path to Odahu manifest files]

more information you can find at :ref:`Local Quickstart <tutorials_local_wine:id1>`

JupyterLab
----------

Odahu-flow provides the :ref:`int_jupyterlab_extension:JupyterLab extension` for interacting with Training API.

********************************************
MLFlow toolchain
********************************************

`MLflow <https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/index.html>`_ is library-agnostic. You can use it with any machine learning library, and in any programming language, since all functions are accessible through a REST API and CLI.

.. _MLFlow toolchain Installation:

Installation
------------

The most straightforward way to install the MLFlow trainer on an Odahu Cluster is to deploy the `odahu-flow-mlflow` helm chart.
The helm chart registers the trainer in the API Odahu and deploys an `MLflow Tracking Server <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html#mlflow-tracking-servers>`_.
By default, the deployed MLflow Tracking Server is available at `https://cluster-url/mlflow` address.

.. code-block:: bash

    # Add the odahu-flow helm repository
    helm repo add odahu-flow 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/odahu/odahu-helm/master/'
    helm repo update
    # Fill in the values for the chart or leave the default values
    helm inspect values odahu-flow/odahu-flow-mlflow --version 1.0.0 > values.yaml
    vim values.yaml
    # Deploy the helm chart
    helm install odahu-flow/odahu-flow-mlflow --name odahu-flow-mlflow --namespace odahu-flow --debug -f values.yaml --atomic --wait --timeout 120

.. warning::

    Odahu-flow must be deployed before the mlflow trainer.

.. _MLProject description:

MLProject file
--------------

Let's look at how the MLProject file is related to Model Training API.

.. code-block:: text

    name: My Project

    entry_points:
      main:
        parameters:
          data_file: path
          regularization: {type: float, default: 0.1}
        command: "python train.py -r {regularization} {data_file}"
      test:
        parameters:
          data_file: path
        command: "python validate.py {data_file}"

Model Training API can contain only one entry point.
You have to add all hyperparameters, which do not have a default value, to a Model Training.
Next, you can find the Model Trainings for the MLProject file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    spec:
      entrypoint: main
      hyperParameters:
        data_file: test/123.txt
        regularization: 0.2

.. code-block:: yaml

    spec:
      entrypoint: main
      hyperParameters:
        data_file: test/456.txt

.. code-block:: yaml

    spec:
      entrypoint: test
      hyperParameters:
        data_file: test/123.txt

MLFlow protocol
---------------

Odahu-flow requires that a model is logged through `mlflow API <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/python_api/mlflow.pyfunc.html#mlflow.pyfunc.log_model>`_.

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: Example of sklearn model logging:

    mlflow.sklearn.log_model(lr, "model")

Optionally, you can provide input and output samples for Odahu-flow.
It allows determining input and output types for Odahu-flow packagers.
These names must be `head_input.pkl` and `head_output.pkl`, respectively.

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: Example of input and output samples logging:

    train_x.head().to_pickle('head_input.pkl')
    mlflow.log_artifact('head_input.pkl', 'model')
    train_y.head().to_pickle('head_output.pkl')
    mlflow.log_artifact('head_output.pkl', 'model')


********************************************
MLFlow Project toolchain
********************************************

MLFlow Project toolchain is a lightweight version of :ref:`MLFlow toolchain`.

The main difference is that MLFlow Project toolchain does not require user to store models using
`MLFlow Tracking API <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html>`_
and therefore does not require models stored in MLFlow format as a resulted artifact.

Instead, MLFlow Project toolchain relies only on
`MLFlow Project functionality <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html>`_  to run training script
and manage dependencies. User can store result artifacts in any format as they wish.

Installation
------------

Installation of MLFlow Project toolchain is identical to :ref:`MLFlow installation<MLFlow toolchain Installation>`

MLProject file
--------------

MLFlow Project toolchain runs training script using MLProject specification. Please refer to
:ref:`previous section<MLProject description>`
or `official MLFlow documentation <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html#mlproject-file>`_
to learn more about MLProject file.

Storing training artifacts
-----------------------------

You can store any artifacts during script execution in a special directory. To get a path to output directory read value
of ``$ODAHUFLOW_OUTPUT_DIR`` environment variable.


.. code-block:: python
    :caption: Example
    :linenos:

    output_dir = os.environ.get("ODAHUFLOW_OUTPUT_DIR")

    train_x.head().to_pickle(os.path.join(output_dir, 'head_input.pkl'))

Additionally, if ``$STATIC_ARTIFACTS_DIR`` variable is specified with a path to directory, all the contents
is copied to final artifact. Path must be relative to working directory.

You can use this feature if you have some file(s) that are required by further steps and
can be defined statically before script execution. For example,
some python wrapper scripts to deploy a model into a specific ML Server in the future.

Commit message:

updated description for some training & packaging params (#121)
* added note about outputConnection parameter
* default workDir is "./"

source/ref_trainings.rst, after:

######################
Model Trainings
######################

.. image:: img/training.png

ODAHU model training component helps to automate ML model training jobs execution in K8S.
The primary goal of model training component is to create a :term:`Trained Model Binary` for a :term:`Packager`.
The API is pluggable and can be extended for different ML frameworks.

You can find the list of out-of-the-box trainers below:

    * :ref:`ref_trainings:MLFlow toolchain`
    * :ref:`ref_trainings:MLFlow Project toolchain`

********************************************
General training structure
********************************************

.. _Training API:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Training API

    kind: ModelTraining
    # Some unique value among all trainings. if not, the training with the same name will be overwritten.
    # Id must:
    #  * contain at most 63 characters
    #  * contain only lowercase alphanumeric characters or ‘-’
    #  * start with an alphanumeric character
    #  * end with an alphanumeric character
    id: wine-12345
    spec:
      model:
        # Human-readable model name
        name: wine
        # Human-readable model version
        version: 3.0
        # Optionally, you can specify template for output artifact
        # The default value is {{ .Name }}-{{ .Version }}-{{ .RandomUUID }}.zip
        # where:
        #   Name - spec.model.name
        #   Version - spec.model.version
        #   RandomUUID - a random UUID v4, for example be17d12d-df43-4588-99e7-56a0db3cad77
        artifactNameTemplate: {{ .Name }}-{{ .Version }}-{{ .RandomUUID }}.zip
      # The toolchain parameter is a point of extension for different ML frameworks.
      # For now, we only support the Mlfow toolchain
      toolchain: mlflow
      # Mlflow MLProject file contains the list of entrypoints. You must choose one of those.
      entrypoint: main
      # Working directory inside a training (docker) container, which GIT repository copied in.
      # Optional. The default directory is "./".
      workDir: work/dir
      # The training data for a ML script. You can find full description there: https://docs.odahu.org/ref_trainings.html#training-data
      data:
          # You can specify a connection name
        - connection: wine
          # Path to a file or a dir where data will copy from a bucket; relative to your Git repository root derictory.
          localPath: mlflow/wine-quality/
          # Path to the dir or file in a bucket
          # Optional. If it is missing then the path from connection will be used.
          remotePath: training-data/
      # You can specify the map of hyperparameters
      hyperParameters:
        key: value
        var2: test
      # Compute resources for the training job.
      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 1Gi
        requests:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 1Gi
      # Custom environment variables that should be set before entrypoint invocation.
      envs:
          # The name of variable
        - name: TEST_ENV_KEY
          # The value of variable
          value: TEST_ENV_VALUE
      # A Docker image where the training will be launched.
      # By default, the image from a toolchain is used.
      image: python:3.8
      # A section defining training source code
      algorithmSource:
        # Use vcs if source code located in a repository and objectStorage if in a storage. Should not use both
        vcs:
          # A connection which describes credentials to a GIT repository or to a bucket if using objectStorage
          connection: <git-connection>
          # Git reference (branch or tag)
          # This must be specified here OR in Git connection itself
          # In case of using objectStorage, specify path: <remote path> instead of reference
          reference: master
      # You can set a connection that points where the Trained Model Binary will be stored.
      # Optional. Default value is taken from the ODAHU cluster configuration.
      outputConnection: custom-connection
      # Node selector that exactly matches a node pool from ODAHU config
      # This is optional; when omitted, ODAHU uses any of available training node pools
      # Read more about node selector: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/
      nodeSelector:
        label: value
    status:
      # One of the following states: scheduling, running, succeeded, failed, unknown
      state: running
      # List of training results
      artifacts:
          # Mlflow run ID
        - runId: 12345678
          # Trained artifact name
          artifactName: wine-10.zip
          # VCS commit ID
          commitID: d3d6e8ed776ed37fd2efd7a1b8d5fabdd7e3eea5

********************************************
Training data
********************************************

Odahu-flow allows downloading data from various sources to the local file system of a training job.
Data source supports the following types of Odahu-flow connections:

    * :ref:`ref_connections:S3`
    * :ref:`ref_connections:Google Cloud Storage`
    * :ref:`ref_connections:Azure Blob storage`

Let's consider the following example of downloading training data from Google Cloud Storage.

Prerequisites:
    * The training data set is located in the `wine-training-data` bucket by `wine/11-11-2011/` directory.
    * The ML script expects that the data will be located in the training (docker) container by `data/` directory relative to the root git directory.

First of all, we should create an :ref:`Odahu-flow GCS connection<ref_connections:Google Cloud Storage>`.

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Training Data GCS:

    kind: ModelTraining
    id: "wine-training-data-conn"
    spec:
        type: gcs
        uri: gsc://wine-training-data/
        keySecret: '{"type": "service_account", "project_id": "project_id", "private_key_id": "private_key_id", "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nprivate_key\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n", "client_email": "test@project_id.iam.gserviceaccount.com", "client_id": "123455678", "auth_uri": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth", "token_uri": "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token", "auth_provider_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs", "client_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/test@project_id.iam.gserviceaccount.com"}'
        description: "Training data for a model"
        region: us-central2

Finally, we provide a data section of Model Training.

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Example of Connection GCS:
    :name: Connection GCS file

    spec:
      data:
        - connection: wine-training-data-conn
          localPath: data/
          remotePath: wine/11-11-2011/

********************************************
GPU
********************************************

Odahu-flow supports model training on GPU nodes.

You can find more about GPU deployment configuration in the :ref:`installation guide <tutorials_installation:Kubernetes setup>`.

In order to provision a training container in the GPU node pool,
you must specify the GPU resource in the model training manifest.

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Training on GPU

    kind: ModelTraining
    id: gpu-model
    spec:
      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 1Gi
          gpu: 1
        requests:
          cpu: 1
          memory: 1Gi

NVIDIA libraries will be mount by ODAHU to the training container.
But if you want to use a CUDA library, you should install it manually.

For example, you can add the following dependencies to a conda file: cudatoolkit-dev and cudatoolkit.

.. _training-model-dependencies-cache:

********************************************
Model Dependencies Cache
********************************************

ODAHU Flow downloads your dependencies on every model training launch.
You can experience the following troubles with this approach:
    * downloading and installation of some dependencies can take a long time
    * network errors during downloading dependencies

To overcome these and other problems, ODAHU Flow provides a way to specify
a prebuilt training Docker image with your dependencies.

.. note::

    If you have different versions of a library in your model сonda file and
    cache container, then the model dependency has a priority.
    It will be downloaded during model training.

First of all, you have to describe the Dockerfile:

    * Inherit from a release version of odahu-flow-mlflow-toolchain
    * Optionally, add install dependencies
    * Add a model conda file
    * Update the ``odahu_model`` conda environment.

.. code-block:: dockerfile
    :caption: Example of Dockerfile:
    :name: Example of Dockerfile

    FROM odahu/odahu-flow-mlflow-toolchain:1.1.0-rc11

    # Optionally
    # apt-get install -y wget

    ADD conda.yaml ./
    RUN conda env update -n ${ODAHU_CONDA_ENV_NAME} -f conda.yaml

Build the docker image:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker build -t training-model-cache:1.0.0 .

Push the docker image to a registry:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker push training-model-cache:1.0.0

Specify the image in a model training:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Training example

    kind: ModelTraining
    id: model-12345
    spec:
      image: training-model-cache:1.0.0
      ...

*********************
Trainings management
*********************

Trainings can be managed using the following ways.

Swagger UI
----------

ModelTraining and ToolchainIntegration are available on the Swagger UI at http://api-service/swagger/index.html URL.

Odahu-flow CLI
--------------

:ref:`ref_odahuflowctl:Odahuflowctl` supports the Training API.
You must be :ref:`logged in <ref_odahuflowctl:Login>` if you want to get access to the API.

Getting all trainings in json format:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl train get --format json

Getting the model name of the trainings:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl train get --id tensorflow-cli -o 'jsonpath=[*].spec.model.name'

* Creating a training from `train.yaml` file:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl train create -f train.yaml
	
* Reruning a training from `train.yaml` file:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl train edit -f train.yaml

* All training commands and documentation:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl train --help

We also have local training:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl local train --help

and can run trainings locally:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl local train run --id [Model training ID] -d [Path to Odahu manifest files]

more information you can find at :ref:`Local Quickstart <tutorials_local_wine:id1>`

JupyterLab
----------

Odahu-flow provides the :ref:`int_jupyterlab_extension:JupyterLab extension` for interacting with Training API.

********************************************
MLFlow toolchain
********************************************

`MLflow <https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/index.html>`_ is library-agnostic. You can use it with any machine learning library, and in any programming language, since all functions are accessible through a REST API and CLI.

.. _MLFlow toolchain Installation:

Installation
------------

The most straightforward way to install the MLFlow trainer on an Odahu Cluster is to deploy the `odahu-flow-mlflow` helm chart.
The helm chart registers the trainer in the API Odahu and deploys an `MLflow Tracking Server <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html#mlflow-tracking-servers>`_.
By default, the deployed MLflow Tracking Server is available at `https://cluster-url/mlflow` address.

.. code-block:: bash

    # Add the odahu-flow helm repository
    helm repo add odahu-flow 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/odahu/odahu-helm/master/'
    helm repo update
    # Fill in the values for the chart or leave the default values
    helm inspect values odahu-flow/odahu-flow-mlflow --version 1.0.0 > values.yaml
    vim values.yaml
    # Deploy the helm chart
    helm install odahu-flow/odahu-flow-mlflow --name odahu-flow-mlflow --namespace odahu-flow --debug -f values.yaml --atomic --wait --timeout 120

.. warning::

    Odahu-flow must be deployed before the mlflow trainer.

.. _MLProject description:

MLProject file
--------------

Let's look at how the MLProject file is related to Model Training API.

.. code-block:: text

    name: My Project

    entry_points:
      main:
        parameters:
          data_file: path
          regularization: {type: float, default: 0.1}
        command: "python train.py -r {regularization} {data_file}"
      test:
        parameters:
          data_file: path
        command: "python validate.py {data_file}"

Model Training API can contain only one entry point.
You have to add all hyperparameters, which do not have a default value, to a Model Training.
Next, you can find the Model Trainings for the MLProject file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    spec:
      entrypoint: main
      hyperParameters:
        data_file: test/123.txt
        regularization: 0.2

.. code-block:: yaml

    spec:
      entrypoint: main
      hyperParameters:
        data_file: test/456.txt

.. code-block:: yaml

    spec:
      entrypoint: test
      hyperParameters:
        data_file: test/123.txt

MLFlow protocol
---------------

Odahu-flow requires that a model is logged through `mlflow API <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/python_api/mlflow.pyfunc.html#mlflow.pyfunc.log_model>`_.

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: Example of sklearn model logging:

    mlflow.sklearn.log_model(lr, "model")

Optionally, you can provide input and output samples for Odahu-flow.
It allows determining input and output types for Odahu-flow packagers.
These names must be `head_input.pkl` and `head_output.pkl`, respectively.

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: Example of input and output samples logging:

    train_x.head().to_pickle('head_input.pkl')
    mlflow.log_artifact('head_input.pkl', 'model')
    train_y.head().to_pickle('head_output.pkl')
    mlflow.log_artifact('head_output.pkl', 'model')


********************************************
MLFlow Project toolchain
********************************************

MLFlow Project toolchain is a lightweight version of :ref:`MLFlow toolchain`.

The main difference is that MLFlow Project toolchain does not require user to store models using
`MLFlow Tracking API <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html>`_
and therefore does not require models stored in MLFlow format as a resulted artifact.

Instead, MLFlow Project toolchain relies only on
`MLFlow Project functionality <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html>`_  to run training script
and manage dependencies. User can store result artifacts in any format as they wish.

Installation
------------

Installation of MLFlow Project toolchain is identical to :ref:`MLFlow installation<MLFlow toolchain Installation>`

MLProject file
--------------

MLFlow Project toolchain runs training script using MLProject specification. Please refer to
:ref:`previous section<MLProject description>`
or `official MLFlow documentation <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/projects.html#mlproject-file>`_
to learn more about MLProject file.

Storing training artifacts
-----------------------------

You can store any artifacts during script execution in a special directory. To get a path to output directory read value
of ``$ODAHUFLOW_OUTPUT_DIR`` environment variable.


.. code-block:: python
    :caption: Example
    :linenos:

    output_dir = os.environ.get("ODAHUFLOW_OUTPUT_DIR")

    train_x.head().to_pickle(os.path.join(output_dir, 'head_input.pkl'))

Additionally, if ``$STATIC_ARTIFACTS_DIR`` variable is specified with a path to directory, all the contents
is copied to final artifact. Path must be relative to working directory.

You can use this feature if you have some file(s) that are required by further steps and
can be defined statically before script execution. For example,
some python wrapper scripts to deploy a model into a specific ML Server in the future.
